Andes User License Agreement
7/15/2004
1. Scope
This license covers the use of the Andes Intelligent Tutoring System for Physics (hereafter "the Andes System"). This includes the Andes Physics workbench (fbd-tcp.exe), the Andes Help System (Andes2.exe), the Andes Image (Andes2.dxl), the Andes uploader (upload.exe), the Algebraic System (solver.dll) and all ancillary support files that are installed by the Andes Installer or otherwise included on the Andes CD distribution. These include all documentation files, Andes Demo videos, Andes problems, Knowledge-Base files, review and help pages, configuration files, data files or any other files installed with, included with, or produced by the Andes system or a component of the Andes System. 

A "component of the Andes System" is defined to be any one of the elements described above. That is, the Andes Physics workbench (fbd-tcp.exe), the Andes Help System (Andes.exe), The Andes uploader (upload.exe), or any ancillary support files that are installed by the Andes Installer or otherwise included on the Andes CD distribution, as well as all documentation files, Andes Demo videos, Andes problems, Knowledge-Base files, Configuration files, data files, graphics, or any other data installed with, included with, or produced by the Andes system or any component of the Andes System. 

For the purposes of this document 'you' refers to the recipient of this copy of the Andes System and of this license document. 'We', 'us', and 'our' refer to Kurt VanLehn. 

The Andes System and all components of the Andes system are copyrighted works whose copyrights are held by us. They are protected by all applicable U.S. and other international intellectual property laws and treaties. We retain all copyrights, titles, and other intellectual property rights on this product. This product is provided under a license. It is not sold. 

Franz Allegro Common Lisp is a copyrighted work of Franz Inc. The Allegro CL library (acl5016.dll) is a copyrighted product of Franz Inc. All other copyrighted works of Franz Inc. remain their exclusive property. No claims of support or liability should be made on Franz Inc for the behavior of the Andes System and all Components of the Andes System. Any requests for support or other information should be made to the Andes Team subject to the restrictions below. 

For the purpose of this license a "work based on or including the Andes System or a component of the Andes System" is taken to be the Andes System or any component of it, any derivative work of the Andes System or any component of it as defined by the United States Copyright Act of 1976 such as a translation or a modification, or any software system. It also includes any website, interactive tool, software bundle, any product or any service of any kind that includes, uses, or depends upon the Andes System or any component of the Andes system in any way. 

2. General
If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable under applicable laws, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remainder of the terms of this Agreement, and without further action by the parties hereto, such provision shall be reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make such provision valid and enforceable. 

If you institute patent litigation against us with respect to a patent applicable to The Andes System or any component of the Andes System (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit), then this license agreement shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed. In addition, if you institute litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Andes System itself or any component of the Andes System (excluding combinations of the Program with other software or hardware) infringes your patent(s), then your rights granted under section 6 of this license agreement shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.

All of your rights under this Agreement shall terminate if you fail to comply with any of the material terms or conditions of this Agreement and do not cure such failure in a reasonable period of time after becoming aware of such noncompliance. If all your rights under this Agreement terminate, you agree to cease use and distribution of the Andes System and all components of the Andes System as soon as reasonably practicable. However, your obligations under this Agreement and any licenses granted by you relating to the Andes System shall continue and survive.

3. Warranty.
The Andes System is provided on an as-is bases with no warranties of any kind either expressed or implied including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions of title, non-infringement, merchantability, or fitness for a particular purpose. You are is solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using and distributing the Andes System and assumes all risks associated with its exercise of rights under this agreement. These risks include but are not limited to the risks and costs of program errors, compliance with applicable laws, damage to or loss of data, programs or equipment, and unavailability or interruption of operations. 

4. Disclaimer of Liability.
Except as expressly set forth in this agreement, neither you nor we shall have any liability for any direct or indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or consequential damages (including without limitation, lost profits), however caused and on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict liability, or tort (including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the use or distribution of the program or the exercise of any rights granted hereunder, even if advised of the possibility of such damages. 

5. Reservation of Rights.
No rights to the Andes System are provided other than those explicitly set forth in this license. All other rights are retained by us. You may not copy, reverse-engineer, sublicense or alter the Andes System or any component of the Andes System in any way except under the restrictions of this license. 

6. Rights.
We hereby grant you the following rights with respect to the Andes System: 

Use. 
You may freely install the Andes System on any number of computers for personal or academic use except as governed by the restrictions listed in section 7. You may use Andes in a classroom setting or for personal tutoring in an individual environment except as governed by the restrictions listed in section 7.

Distribution. 
You may freely distribute the Andes System provided that it is distributed as a whole with all data intact and unaltered except as governed by the restrictions listed in section 7. Every part of the Andes System must be reproduced verbatim.


7. Restrictions.
The following restrictions apply to the 

Modification or Alteration: 
When Distributing the Andes System, you must keep it intact. You are expressly forbidden from altering the Andes System in any way. This includes the removal of any components of the Andes System, alteration of any components of the Andes system, substitution or addition of new software or data components, or the attempted alteration of the licenses or titles under which it is bound.

Separation: 
You may not attempt to decouple any component of the Andes System from any other component. This includes the removal of problems, educational materials, interface components or any other components from the Andes System. It also includes any attempts to substitute any other software, or educational data for one or more components of the Andes System.

Ownership: 
You may not assert ownership of or claim title to the Andes System or any component of the Andes System. Nor may you attempt to bundle the Andes System or any component of the Andes system into a product or service over which you do assert ownership.

Licenses: 
You may not remove this or any other license notice from the Andes System or any component of the Andes System nor may you attempt to alter the licenses in any way.

Reverse Engineering: 
You may not reverse engineer, disassemble, or decompile the Andes System or any component of the Andes System in any way. Nor may you use the Andes system or any component of the Andes System as a guide or basis for the development of any similar system.

Name: 
The name 'Andes' or "Andes Intelligent Tutoring System for Physics" may not be used in any advertisements for products or services without our express written permission. You may not use the names to imply endorsement of, support for or any other relationship between the Andes System, any component of the Andes System, or the Andes team and any other product, school, or service.

Resale: 
You may not sell the Andes System or any component of the Andes System in any way. Nor may you charge for access to the Andes System or any component of the Andes System.

Bundling: 
You may not bundle the Andes system or any component of it with any other products including textbooks, magazines, software bundles, software tools, demo CDs, websites and learning management or course management systems without our express written permission.

Services: 
You may not include the use of the Andes System or any component of the Andes System as part of any commercial service or as part of any offer of services without our express written permission.

All other Restrictions: 
The above list is not intended to be exhaustive. No other rights are granted except those expressly stated in section 6 above.

